### The Desolation and The Scorched Sands
In the far corner of the map on turbulent seas sits the lonely broken continent of [[Alra]] that holds the beating heart of adventure and industry in this age. Hundreds of years ago during the height of their power the [[Orrin Empire]] sought to gather the foremost arcane practitioners to attempt something unprecedented. Though no one knows what they attempted they instead created a calamity that burned the land to cinders, raised new mountains, and dried up the inland sea that would later be named the [[Scorched Sands]]. Still to this day unpredictable [[Surge]]s of raw chaotic energy frequently sweep over the land originating from some unknown source deep in the dead heart of the continent. Those who returned to [[Alra]] take shelter from the storm by carving their cities into the sides of plateaus that tower over the shining sands below.

### Orrum and The Rise of Magic
People have found that there is something special about the sands on [[Alra]]. After being drenched in energy for so long the land itself has begun to soak it in, holding a charge of raw potential after the chaos of a [[Surge]] passes over it. Though not very useful in its natural form, those who came back to explore what happened to the [[Orrin Empire]] discovered a method to refine the sands into a useful oily substance called [[Orrum]] that could carry great charges of energy for long periods. 

The world before Orrum, while not entirely without magic, would best be described as mundane. A particularly skilled magician over the course of months might trap enough background energy in an arcane focus to cast a spell or two, but magic was largely relegated to aristocratic pastimes and magically active areas. The discovery of Orrum sent shock waves across the civilized world and the spread of Orrum powered machines touches everyone. Magic is on the rise!

Initially this charged oil was only of use to magicians, at last able to draw large quantities of energy to power their spells. While before it would take months to charge a focus enough for a single spell, a barrel of moderate quality [[Orrum]] allowed the aspiring arcanist to perform ten or even fifteen complex incantations with ease. What started as a novelty for weekend wizards quickly became an essential commodity for governments around the world. Through a process of carefully carving arcane wards and runes on the interior of an [[Orrum]] holding container, the oil was found capable dumping its energy to activate a desired magical effect.

### Decay and Adventure
That said, not all [[Orrum]] is created equal. The lowest grades, though they hold their charge, leak it out entirely in just a few hours. On the other hand, highest quality [[Orrum]] can hold a charge for a couple weeks making it ideal for surviving the long export journey across the ocean. In order to explore and export more the arcanists on [[Alra]] have created airships powered by [[Orrum]] that sail above the dangers on the sand's surface though they must land and hide to avoid the turmoil that a [[Surge]] brings.

The source of the sands used in refining are the biggest factor in the [[Orrum]]'s final quality and good quality sources are highly sought after. Many people trek out into the deep desert looking for signs that point to their ticket to riches. These could be anything from hunting for the monstrous creatures that feed of the rich magic or curiosities created by the warping nature of [[Surge]]s.

As more people stake their claim on the sands, adventurers are forced to search farther and farther from the safety of the plateau cities. With any group taking risks there are those who lost their bet and have turned to preying on travelers and traders to survive on the harsh continent. You find yourself in Overhang, the largest city rising from the desert, with enough left in your pockets to keep you in comfort. Though not for long. Cities on [[Alra]] cannot support themselves with the barren soil around them. Provisions are shipped in each day on wide wallowing airships and the price of the food they bring reflects that long journey. The sands are warm in your footprints, where would you like to go?